doc/index.rst, before:

Pagure
=======

Pagure is a light-weight git-centered forge based on pygit2.

Features:

* ``Open-sources``: Web-interface for the git repositories
* ``Flexibility``: Ability to create any project you want
* ``One place``: Keep your documentation and tickets in pagure
* ``Collaboration``: Fork a project and make a pull-request
* ``Integration``: Create pull-request from a fork hosted somewhere else than in
  pagure
* ``Open data``: Sources, doc, ticket and pull-requests meta-data are available
  in the web interface but also in git repos which can thus be cloned and changed
  locally.
* ``Freedom``: Pagure is fully Free and Open-Source Software!


Resources:

- `Home page <https://pagure.io/>`_
- `Git repository <http://pagure.io/pagure>`_
- `Github mirror <https://github.com/pypingou/pagure>`_


Contents:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   overview
   usage/index
   install
   install_pagure_milter
   install_pagure_ev
   install_pagure_webhooks
   install_pagure_ci
   install_pagure_loadjson
   install_pagure_logcom
   configuration
   custom_gitolite_conf
   development
   contributing
   contributors



Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`

Commit message:

Explain in the doc where the doc is coming from
Fixes https://pagure.io/pagure/issue/2828

Signed-off-by: Pierre-Yves Chibon <pingou@pingoured.fr>

doc/index.rst, after:

Pagure
=======

Pagure is a light-weight git-centered forge based on pygit2.

Features:

* ``Open-sources``: Web-interface for the git repositories
* ``Flexibility``: Ability to create any project you want
* ``One place``: Keep your documentation and tickets in pagure
* ``Collaboration``: Fork a project and make a pull-request
* ``Integration``: Create pull-request from a fork hosted somewhere else than in
  pagure
* ``Open data``: Sources, doc, ticket and pull-requests meta-data are available
  in the web interface but also in git repos which can thus be cloned and changed
  locally.
* ``Freedom``: Pagure is fully Free and Open-Source Software!


Resources:

- `Home page <https://pagure.io/>`_
- `Git repository <http://pagure.io/pagure>`_
- `Github mirror <https://github.com/pypingou/pagure>`_


Contents:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   overview
   usage/index
   install
   install_pagure_milter
   install_pagure_ev
   install_pagure_webhooks
   install_pagure_ci
   install_pagure_loadjson
   install_pagure_logcom
   configuration
   custom_gitolite_conf
   development
   contributing
   contributors


This documentation is generated from the ``doc`` folder in the
`pagure's sources <https://pagure.io/pagure/blob/master/f/doc>`_. Feel free
to report issues about the documentation on the `pagure issue tracker
<https://pagure.io/pagure/issues>`_ or even better, contribute to it!



Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`
